---
layout: event
people: 
title: "INTERTWinE Face to Face meeting 2018"
short: "INTERTWinE F2F 2018"
venue: "KTH Royal Institute of Technology"
place: "Stockholm, SWEDEN" 
event: 2018-04-11
time1:
close: 2018-04-12
time2:
tags:
category:
comments: true
---

Last Face to Face meeting before the end of the project and we have report the
work progress for the different work packages and several technical sessions in
a one-and-a-half-day meeting in Stockholm, Sweden.

The overall status is good and there is a common agreement that we must hurry
up the evaluation of the project’s applications, discard those that are not
anymore interesting for the main objective of the project and focus on those
that make more sense to validate our conclusion and the development of the
Resource Manager.

We had an interesting conversation about the differences between MPI's
End-Points and Fine-Points proposals. These extensions can influence in the way
you work on the different multi-threaded runtimes based also in the task
paradigm. These proposals are a very interesting topic to follow within the MPI
forum. It is also interesting to know how these extensions can be incorporated
into the GASPI standard.

We have commented about a collaboration opportunity arising from the
Pause/Resume interface proposal with participants of the OpenMP committee. This
collaboration would allow to cover certain cases of interoperability between
the message passing libraries and OpenMP using an event-based mechanism. The
project consortium is interested in see progression in this topic.

In relation to the different software packages it is progressing adequately and
some of them are already available online through github based on the API
combinations of APIs: MPI + OpenMP (Threads & Tasks), MPI + GASPI and GASPI +
OpenMP. MPI End-Points + OpenMP has been discarted by not finding any use case
meaningful that benefit by this new feature. Also, GASPI + StarPU reiterates
the lessons learned with GASPI + OmpSs so it has also been discarded. Finally,
a new software package has been prepared that brings together all the
applications using the Resource Manager: Task Pause/Resume and Dynamic Resource
Sharing.

The technical presentation on the new implementation of the interoperability
library using GASPI seems to have convinced the other partners in terms of the
designed interface and the basic functionality. This library confirms and
validates the previous implementation based on MPI and allows the interaction
among message-passing interfaces with task-based runtime systems. Specifically
the execution of other ready tasks when the thread block on a synchronous
communication service.


