---
layout: default
title: Towards Task-Parallel Reductions in OpenMP
short: IWOMP 2015
people: Jan Ciesko, Sergi Mateo, Xavier Teruel, Xavier Martorell, Eduard Ayguadé, Jesús Labarta, Alex Duran, Bronis R. de Supinski, Stephen Olivier, Kelvin Li and Alexandre E. Eichenberger
info: In Proceedings of IWOMP 2015. 15th International Workshop on OpenMP (pp. 189-201)
venue: Aachen, GERMANY
event: 2015-10-02
tags: IWOMP OpenMP Task Reductions 
comments: true
---

We present the specification of task-parallel reductions and explore issues for
programmers and software vendors regarding programming transparency as well as
the impact on the current standard with respect to nesting, untied task support
and task data dependencies.


## Abstract

Reductions represent a common algorithmic pattern in many scientific
applications. OpenMP∗ has always supported them on parallel and worksharing
constructs. OpenMP 3.0’s tasking constructs enable new parallelization
opportunities through the annotation of irregular algorithms. Unfortunately the
tasking model does not easily allow the expression of concurrent reductions,
which limits the general applicability of the programming model to such
algorithms. In this work, we present an extension to OpenMP that supports
task-parallel reductions on task and taskgroup constructs to improve
productivity and programmability. We present specification of the feature and
explore issues for programmers and software vendors regarding programming
transparency as well as the impact on the current standard with respect to
nesting, untied task support and task data dependencies. Our performance
evaluation demonstrates comparable results to hand coded task reductions.

