---
layout: publication
title: "Monitoring Heterogeneous Applications with the OpenMP Tools Interface"
short: "Tools for HPC 2016"
people: "Michael Wagner, Germán Llort, Antonio Filgueras, Daniel Jiménez-González, Harald Servat, Xavier Teruel, Estanislao Mercadal, Carlos Álvarez, Judit Giménez, Xavier Martorell, Eduard Ayguadé and Jesús Labarta"
info: "In Proceedings of Tools for High Performance Computing 2016. (p. 41-57)"
venue: "Stuttgart, GERMANY"
event: 2016-10-17
tags: [OpenMP, OMPT]
comments: true
---

Integration of the OMPT features to our parallel runtime system and
instrumentation framework helps to obtain detailed performance information
about the execution of the accelerated tasks issued to the devices to allow an
insightful analysis. The evaluation is focused in monitoring FPGA devices.

### Abstract
Heterogeneous systems are gaining more importance in supercomputing, yet they
are challenging to program and developers require support tools to understand
how well their accelerated codes perform and how they can be improved. The
OpenMP Tools Interface (OMPT) is a new performance monitoring interface that is
being considered for integration into the OpenMP standard. OMPT allows
monitoring the execution of heterogeneous OpenMP applications by revealing the
activity of the runtime through a standardized API as well as facilitating the
exchange of performance information between devices with accelerated codes, and
the analysis tool. In this paper we describe our efforts implementing parts of
the OMPT specification necessary to monitor accelerators. In particular, the
integration of the OMPT features to our parallel runtime system and
instrumentation framework helps to obtain detailed performance information
about the execution of the accelerated tasks issued to the devices to allow an
insightful analysis. As a result of this analysis, the parallel runtime of the
programming model has been improved. We focus on the evaluation of monitoring
FPGA devices studying the performance of a common kernel in scientific
algorithms: matrix multiplication. Nonetheless, this development is as well
applicable to monitor GPU accelerators and Intel; Xeon PhiTM co-processors
operating under the OmpSs programming model.

